Title: Rotate passwords immediately.
Author: Orson Teodoro <orsonteodoro@hotmail.com>
Content-Type: text/plain
Posted: 2025-01-16
Revision: 6
News-Item-Format: 2.0
Display-If-Installed: gui-apps/windowpet

gui-apps/windowpet references tauri-plugin-autostart-api.  There is a
security advisory for the tauri-plugin-autostart-api dependency issued
Dec 19, 2024.

https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-32xm-jpw6-7frx

All passwords used on that machine with windowpet should be changed.  The
capabilities or behavior of the questioned package is unknown and not fully
disclosed.  It is also suggested to change the password in the computers in
the network as well.

The advisory recommends to generate password on a different computer.

I extend the advice to include that each account have unique passwords that
should be created from a password generator for each account.  If a
password cannot be generated, it is recommended to use a 11 dice words password.

For single sign-on password, with expired capabilities, the token should be
expired per month for frequently used passwords for easier recovery and to
stop the attacker from using that password after expired.  If the service allows
to reject the sign-on token in the settings panel, it should be rejected or
revoked.

In addition, accounts should add 2 or 3 factor authentication to highly valued
accounts.  For keys with revoke capabilities, it is best to revoke those keys
also.

The computer should be clean formatted as a precaution.  The advisory stated
full control.  It is possible that clean formatting is not enough and firmware
compromised.  This is unlikely and difficult attack complexity.

The distro package manager will sandbox the software and run as a non-root
user.  Also, windowpet is ran as a limited user.  While it may seem that
the questioned package is also limited, it is possible to gain full control
via an unpatched vulnerability in kernel, poor security practices, or hardware
vulnerability.

When a recreated account is made, it is strongly *not recommended* to copy the
account directory to prevent autostarting the plugin.  The user account should be
created new and assets copied over carefully to avoid hidden setting files with
autostart capabilities.

The windowpet package has been introduced in this overlay on Dec 15, 2023
on with 32ef0d14a7ee69d66e7bc984591ccbed51868d1f commit referencing the
plugin.

Full history of this ebuild package before removal can be found at
https://github.com/orsonteodoro/oiledmachine-overlay/commits/0b6eae62e8b3d62066ebf9b9e52b9eff59e99fa3/gui-apps/windowpet

The package gui-apps/windowpet has been removed from this repo to
prevent access to tauri-plugin-autostart-api package.

The npm team stated that they removed the plugin at
https://www.npmjs.com/package/tauri-plugin-autostart-api
but the lockfiles bypass this and download directly from the repo.

The repo tauri-plugin-autostart-api has not been deleted.  Usually the
repo will be taken offline by the service.  This could mean that the
advisory is doubious or false positive.  Since the repo and source
is open, it is not clear what exactly triggered the advisory.
